Today’s complex enterprise IT workloads require the scale and flexibility that only Kubernetes can deliver. But security issues facing Kubernetes users continue to disrupt critical operations, particularly as ransomware inflicts increasing damage on enterprises.

Conservative estimates put global ransomware losses upwards of $20 billion in 2020, with 2021 expected to be even worse.

While the primary goal is to be able to prevent a ransomware attack altogether, it is equally as important to plan for how to recover from one. Hardened backup capabilities are a must and enterprise IT teams should be aware of the different operating requirements for Kubernetes applications in contrast to legacy, monolithic systems.

Application State and Configuration Data – Each application must include the state that spans across storage volumes and databases (NoSQL/relational), as well as configuration data included in Kubernetes objects such as configmaps and secrets.

Snapshots versus Backups – Snapshots are typically stored alongside primary data and are not fully isolated. This means that, alone, snapshots might not be available if something happens to the cluster holding them, rendering them unreliable for recovery and long-term data retention due to potential data loss.

Application Security for Cloud-Native Environments – Cloud-native environments have shifted the importance and function of application security. End-to-end encryption and customer-owned management capabilities are paramount and should include integrated authentication and role-based access control (RBAC).

Lastly, application security must allow for a quick recovery from ransomware attacks.

## Prioritizing Recovery

Despite planning for disaster, should a ransomware attack succeed, recovery is an organization’s next line of defense. Ransomware attacks are not one-size-fits all and attackers work diligently to find the right targets, as well.

In the case of Kubernetes, an attack on a cluster may stem from something as “simple” as an overlooked, unauthenticated endpoint or an unpatched vulnerability. In the event of a successful attack, fast restores are essential to protecting sensitive data from being exploited and resuming business operations quickly.

Enterprise IT teams run and maintain thousands of applications across different locations using platforms like Kubernetes that enable automation – overseeing all of them manually is a task nearly beyond human capabilities.

Tools for backup and recovery functions should also promote automation and integrate seamlessly into existing workflows. Enabling immutability, creating backups with unique code paths, protecting backups for maximum effectiveness and enabling seamless restores are part of a robust ransomware data protection strategy.

If an organization is attacked by ransomware, and there is no plan to defend against it, the attack can result in significant business disruption and major financial losses, even without paying ransom (which a business should never do).

A robust ransomware data protection strategy can enable organizations to recover from data loss and ransomware attacks with sustained success.

Beyond tooling, IT teams need to educate stakeholders on how to avoid ransomware and detect phishing campaigns, suspicious websites and other scams, like social engineering, while security resources should be aimed at hardening application infrastructure – systems and networks – and maintaining all software updates on a regular basis.

For applications running on Kubernetes, IT teams need to be aware of their unique requirements to protect them and ensure that backup and recovery capabilities are hardened accordingly. Kubernetes is the unifying fabric of modern computing. Using it to mitigate the most pressing data threats in today’s risk landscape is one of the best defenses yet.
